>>SEAN STONE: X never
ever marks the spot.
Let's enter the buzzsaw.
[THEME MUSIC]
Welcome to "Buzzsaw," where
we cut through the mainstream
narrative to explore
the hidden truths.
I'm your host, Sean
Stone, and with me today
is Dr. Ken Hanson.
Dr. Hanson is a dynamic
author, lecturer,
and founder of Treasures in
Time, an organization devoted
to disseminating knowledge
of the biblical and classical
world.
He has dug on archaeological
sites in the Middle East,
lived in a politically volatile
region of northern Galilee,
and taught Hebrew on an Israeli
agricultural settlement.
He has also worked with a
television news gathering
operation in a war zone
in southern Lebanon
at the height of
the civil war that
left the jewel of the
Mediterranean in ruins.
Today he cracks his whip
on some ancient knowledge.
>>DR. KEN HANSON:
Cracking the whip.
>>SEAN: There we go.
>>DR. HANSON: We need this in
the academic world from time
to time.
>>SEAN: Absolutely.
Keep the students
in line, right?
Well, no, actually towards
that end my question
is, why do you think we give
such historical onus to Israel?
The fact is war is
still being fought.
Conflict still exists
over Israel's existence,
and yet the Hebrews
obviously drive so much
of their teaching, so much of--
their Bible actually derived
from Sumerian traditions and
history, Egyptian teachings
and knowledge.
So what is it about Israel
that is so important,
do you think, for us today?
>>DR. HANSON: Well,
we scholars are always
looking at the roots
of the biblical text,
and you're absolutely right.
It seems that a
lot of the stories
and the quote unquote
"mythology" of the Bible
does derive from
ancient Sumerian,
Mesopotamian sources,
even Egyptian sources.
And yet, when you think
about those ancient cultures,
what did they give us?
The ancient Sumerians,
Mesopotamians
gave us great towers
reaching to the skies.
Ziggurats, they were called.
That's the tradition
behind the Tower of Babel.
The Egyptians gave us, of
course, the great pyramids
and the magnificent temples
at Karnak and elsewhere.
What did the Israelites give us?
An idea.
Just an idea that was and
remains as revolutionary
as the wheel--
namely that there is only
one power in the universe.
And that very idea, especially
when you take it back thousands
of years, set us
free from, , what,
the whims of the gods and
goddesses who were always
squabbling with each other?
The idea that Marduk
may be mad, so he
might send a flood tomorrow
and whisk us all away.
People lived literally
in fear of nature.
The gods were
personifications of nature,
and one of the
amazing inventions
of the ancient Mesopotamians
was the first alcoholic beverage
on Earth-- barley beer.
And those texts tell us
they drank a lot of it,
because they never knew what
was coming down the pike.
They felt helpless, like
some strange fate is
going to determine our future.
Now, with this idea of a single
god-- that's monotheism--
a single power--
for better or for
worse, there's meaning.
There's purpose in
everything that happens,
and there's the birth of a
word that one author called
by itself a Jewish word,
and that word is progress.
From generation to
generation, we actually
are charged and tasked
with making the world
a better place.
Somebody asked a rabbi,
when will the messiah come?
And the rabbi asked
when we make the world
worthy to receive him.
What a powerful concept.
That's what the
Israelites gave us.
>>SEAN: Right, precisely.
And then obviously there
is this issue of mythology,
as you talked about,
within the Bible itself.
Now, Israeli scholars like
Finkelstein and Silberman
have pointed out, and
they've questioned
the validity of the historical
nature of the Bible.
They've written
"Bible Unearthed,"
and they're saying, look,
they're essentially--
people don't know the history.
They don't remember that
Judah was one kingdom
and everyone says Jewish,
but Judah was one kingdom,
and Israel was another one.
And basically when
Israel disappeared,
the 10 tribes disappeared with
them, and yet their argument--
Finkelstein and
Silberman's argument
is that essentially there
never was this unified
powerful kingdom that the
Bible may have portrayed
after the fact when they
were trying-- basically
when the scholars were
trying to give onus
to this idea of having been
conquered-- that they will come
back one day.
It's always this
return mythology
within Israeli history.
History is always
this notion of we're
going to return to
the promised land.
>>DR. HANSON: We're
going to return.
>>SEAN: It's never really ours,
but we are always struggling.
We're always being oppressed,
or imprisoned, captured,
but we're always
going to return.
So what do you make, then,
of the real history of Israel
vis a vis the real
Israeli history
versus the Biblical history?
>>DR. HANSON: Well,
actually the book
you mentioned, "The Bible
Unearthed," is one of the texts
that I use in a course I teach
at the University of Central
Florida, the Judaic
studies program,
on biblical archeology.
I'm well familiar with
it, and I can also
tell you there are some
real flaws in that approach,
and that approach actually
is losing adherents
as time goes on
because wouldn't you
know the archeology
more and more
seems to be sustaining
the biblical account.
Be careful before you
decide that the Bible is
guilty until proven innocent.
Some of the recent
archeology, for example,
focuses on, among
other things, a town
quite a distance
from Jerusalem called
Khirbet Qeiyafa, which was on
the border of ancient Israel
and ancient Philistia quite
a distance from Jerusalem.
And yet, new archeology
has shown massive walls
at that town.
It also has unearthed the
earliest examples of Hebrew
writing ever discovered,
writing apparently composed
by a formal scribe, who
had to have been sent
from a centralized government.
You don't have walls like that.
You don't have scribes coming
from a central government
when you have no kingdom.
There had to have
been-- in fact,
just as the Bible records--
a strong and in fact
unified kingdom.
We even have an inscription
way up to the north--
I used to live in
northern Galilee
not far from an archaeological
site called Tel Dan.
And this elderly
Israeli archaeologist
was for years doing excavations
at that site, when one summer
somebody shouts, I
found something here.
I found something.
He said, what is it?
What is it?
And plain as day
in ancient Hebrew
there is reference to the
Hebrew words Melech Israel,
King of Israel, and
right underneath it
in ancient Hebrew script it says
beit David, the house of David.
OK, what's it doing way
up north if there never
was a centralized kingdom?
And even beyond
that, as we speak,
archaeological excavations are
continuing in Jerusalem itself,
the City of David, and there
is good reason to believe--
and I'm now quoting Israeli
archaeologist Eilat Mazar
that they have in fact uncovered
the foundations of the palace
of King David himself.
I've been to that site.
It's remarkable.
So you have to be
careful, again,
and I think that the biblical
account really holds water
on so many different levels.
That doesn't mean it's perfect.
>>SEAN: Sure, sure.
What do you think--
well, speaking
of which this notion of Hebrews
being slaves within Egypt
and the idea of Moses parting
the Red Sea to flee them,
what do you think
the relationship was
between this kingdom
of Israel and Egypt?
Do you think that it was
basically essentially
a neighboring kingdom?
Was it a vassal state?
Do you think that Moses--
what I'm asking
essentially was Moses part
of perhaps a pharaoh
or the pharaonic family
that basically relocated
certain people north
to establish this new king?
>>DR. HANSON: Well, there's
all kinds of controversy
about the biblical
exodus, as well,
and for generations,
in fact, the Bible
has lost a lot of credibility
because it's very difficult
to find any archeology to
substantiate that Israelites
were ever in Egypt to begin
with, much less that they made
a great exodus, or
that a generation later
under a conqueror named Joshua
they came into this promised
land and took it.
Where's the evidence of this?
We have evidence of a few
cities destroyed here and there
like Hazor in northern Galilee.
Terrific destruction.
Incredible fire, but if you're
looking at the same period
in time, you're looking for a
city like Jericho that should
have been destroyed about
the same time, and it wasn't.
It wasn't.
Its destruction, if
it were destroyed,
had to have been much earlier,
even a couple of centuries
earlier.
So there's holes all through it.
Now, however, there's
some suggestion
that maybe we've been looking at
the wrong time period entirely.
Maybe we should be looking a
couple of centuries earlier,
and we find all manner of
circumstantial evidence.
We can't prove anything.
It would be very difficult,
say, 1,000 years from now
to prove that George Washington
ever lived or existed,
but if there had not been Moses,
we would have to invent one.
And one of my
favorite little pieces
of the evidence of
the puzzle is the Ark
of the Covenant, the
famous Ark of the Covenant.
What was it?
What became of it?
>>SEAN: Well, Indiana Jones
had a certain perspective
on what it was.
>>DR. HANSON: Well, sure.
Exactly.
>>SEAN: Would you believe
it was like that energy
weapon, that scene in that
film, "Raiders of the Lost Ark?"
>>DR. HANSON: What I
think it was basically
an Egyptian chest,
and none other than
famed Israeli archaeologist
from the Hebrew University
of Jerusalem came to my
university, UCF Orlando,
Florida, and talked
about that very fact
that we have a chest
described by the Bible
in a way that makes it look
uncannily similar, almost
identical to the type
of Egyptian gold covered
chests found in the
archeology of Egypt.
King Tut's tomb, for example--
we have this amazing gold
covered chest with--
and you have winged beings,
the goddess Isis on top.
Of course, for the
Israelites, they replaced this
with golden cherubs, but
if the biblical minimalists
are correct who basically find
the Bible guilty until proven
innocent, who says it's all
just a fantasy and all contrived
later, OK, let's enter into
the marketplace of ideas
and then put you on the spot.
How do you suppose, if this
text were composed centuries
after the fact--
maybe even in the
Israelite exile centuries
later in Babylonia, which
is what some of them
actually argue--
how would people
that far removed
know what an Egyptian
chest would look like?
That the Hebrews
would have created
an ark that looked like
something in their own culture
like a chest from
King Tut's tomb.
If I were creating a
story about ancient China
a couple of millennia ago,
I wouldn't have a clue
how to write it.
I'd probably have
somebody in a Ford Focus
or something driving around.
>>SEAN: But what would be
inside that chest then?
>>DR. HANSON: Ah,
basically the Ark
of the Covenant
from my perspective
is what we call a covenant box.
Just a box that symbolizes
the single most important word
in all of Hebrew tradition.
Berith in Hebrew, a covenant.
It's basically a contract, and
it contained the two tablets
of the 10 commandments.
Of course, the ark
has never been found.
Nobody knows if it
even exists anymore.
>>SEAN: Well, we've heard
legends and rumors about it
existing in Ethiopia, I think--
>>DR. HANSON: In Ethiopia.
>>SEAN: --that was reported
they have it there.
>>DR. HANSON: Right, there is an
old text that talks about King
Menelik I from Ethiopia
who was supposedly
the son of King Solomon and the
Queen of Sheba, who brought it
down to Ethiopia.
Only trouble is
people normally assume
that Sheba is really Ethiopian.
Well--
>>SEAN: Indonesia or Shiva,
or it could be from the East.
>>DR. HANSON: From
the biblical texts--
I'm a textual scholar--
all it says is that she
was queen of the south.
Now, in Hebrew, the word south
is also the word for right
because it's a
way that maps were
situated in the ancient times.
East was actually the
upper part of the map.
So if south would
be the right side--
Hebrew word for right is yameen.
And it relates to another
word, Teiman, which is Yemen.
And if you go due south from
the land of Israel today,
you'll end up in Yemen.
>>SEAN: And that was
the Israeli king--
>>DR. HANSON: We got the wrong--
the queen of Sheba
was from Yemen.
I'm sorry, not Ethiopia.
>>SEAN: But the last Jewish
kingdom was in Yemen, correct?
>>DR. HANSON: Yes, and
there were Yemenite Jews
who existed there for centuries
who were not brought out,
in fact, until the great
airlift soon after the creation
of the state of Israel.
It is an incredible story.
So anyway, bottom line is
the whole Menelik account
I don't put much stock in.
They say it's in a church
somewhere in Ethiopia.
I'll believe it when I see it.
>>SEAN: Well, getting into this
issue of last kingdom in Yemen
and obviously the
Jewish influence
across the Arab
peninsula, people
don't understand that Islam
actually derives so much
of its tradition from Judaism.
>>DR. HANSON: Absolutely.
>>SEAN: So I'm interested,
because you've talked about
kabbalah before--
I've heard this notion
that kabbalah actually
refers to the Kaaba, which
is the house of Abram, right?
Before it becomes Abraham--
and allah.
Kaaba allah-- kabbalah.
>>DR. HANSON: Isn't
that interesting?
Is that curious?
Well, etymologically
I can tell you
that that kabbalah, as we
pronounce it over in Israel,
comes from a verbal root,
qabal, which means to receive.
Kabbalah, it means that
which is received if we just
look at the etymology
of the word,
because we're talking about a
whole group of Jewish mystics
who received things from
another dimension from on high,
as it were--
remarkable revelations.
Now, the flowering of
kabbalah is actually
from the medieval
period, and that's
when we find the word
itself sprouting.
So you can't really talk about
kabbalah as a word before that,
but there are traces of
it going way, way back.
They were just called
different things.
It was called, for example,
Merkabah, mysticism,
which means chariot, going
back to Ezekiel's vision,
where he sees the chariot, and
the wheels covered with eyes.
So there are traces of
this going way, way back.
What about Islam?
What about the Kaaba?
Maybe it's just
coincidence, but mystically,
if you want to find--
I say if you want to find
the common golden thread
through all religions don't
look at their doctrines.
Don't look at their ideologies,
because the religions
of the world, let me tell you--
why we had so many religious
wars--
>>SEAN: Well, they're
designed to conflict
because it's easier to
control people that way.
>>DR. HANSON: There you go.
War after war.
And no wonder people are
turned off by religion.
>>SEAN: Of course.
>>DR. HANSON: It is
their doggone doctrines
and ideologies, but if you
want to find the common thread,
you look at the
mystical tradition,
and there's not a religion on
Earth that doesn't have one.
And they're all remarkably
going the same direction,
saying much the same thing
that there are other dimensions
that we need to
get in touch with.
Now, could kaaba allah have
something on a mystical level
to do with it?
Maybe.
We're not talking
etymology there.
We're talking mysticism itself.
And there is another
interesting link,
and that is in Jewish
tradition there's
a little box called tefillin.
There are actually
two of them that
contain little parchments
that say in Hebrew,
here oh, Israel, the
Lord God has won.
One box is placed
on the forehead,
the other on the left forearm.
And that little box--
if you look at it
closely, if you
look at a photo of one
of these tefillin boxes--
it's a little black box.
And if you line that up with
a photo of the Kaaba in Mecca,
you're looking at the
same thing precisely.
And there are leather
straps attached
to that box that are wrapped
around the left forearm
seven times because
there are seven heavens,
and there are seven levels
of the evil inclination
in every one of us that we
need to overcome every day.
And in the Hajj in
Mecca, how many times
do people march
around the Kaaba?
>>SEAN: Seven.
>>DR. HANSON: Seven times.
>>SEAN: And then even in
the Buddhist traditions
they talk about the seven
heavens and seven hells,
and many of the
eastern traditions talk
about this, too.
>>DR. HANSON: Exactly.
So there's something
going on mystically in all
the religions, I believe.
>>SEAN: Precisely.
And speaking of
mystical tradition,
obviously Christianity
has it, as well.
Now, the Talmudic version
of Jesus is Yeshu,
and they refer to a Yeshu
Ben Pandera, for example.
And it said that he
learned his abilities--
he became a magician
essentially in that tradition.
That's why he's able to do these
things like resurrect the dead
and walk on water, and it
was because that version
is that he went to
Egypt and basically got
the secrets from the temple
and basically the various old--
the priests there
had taught him magic.
So that's very interesting.
What do you make
of that in regards
to you've spoken
about Jesus basically
teaching kabbalistic secrets?
>>DR. HANSON: Yeah, there are
some very early references
in Jewish writings.
The Talmud, as you mentioned,
the voluminous encyclopedia
of Jewish wit, and
wisdom, and law--
and there are faint
and scant references
to Yeshu, which is the
way Jews refer to Jesus.
Yeshua was his name, but
it's shortened to Yeshu.
And there are
references to someone
named Yeshua Ben Pandera
or Pantera having taught
certain things that
were not to be accepted,
and one rabbi, Eliezer Ben
Hurcanus got in real trouble.
He was actually
arrested because he
was listening to some of this
secret talk and secret wisdom
from this Yeshu Ben Pantera.
It was passed down through
one of his disciples.
And another disciple named in
the Talmud is someone, Jacob--
apparently was trying to heal
someone of a snake bite--
another rabbi also named
Eliezer from a snake bite
in the name of
Yeshu Ben Pantera.
And scholars think that
this individual probably
is, in fact, Jesus of
Nazareth that the Talmud is
referring to.
Now, who Pantera
was-- now that's
an issue for probably a whole
other show because there's
a lot that goes into that.
Who was, in fact,
the father of Jesus?
Some claimed he was
a Roman soldier.
That's a whole
other can of worms,
but the bottom
line is that there
are ancient traditions about
Jesus, the historical Jesus,
that he had certain powers--
magical powers, if you
were, mystical powers.
Through the
centuries, people have
tried to divorce Jesus
from his miracles.
Thomas Jefferson tried that.
Albert Schweitzer try that.
You want to find the
historical Jesus?
Just get rid of
all the miracles.
You know what?
You get rid of the miracles.
You get rid of the
healings, and you
don't have historical Jesus.
That's how intertwined they are.
>>SEAN: But there are
mystical traditions
of these types of healings,
these types of miracles
from around the world,
and oftentimes Christians
won't accept it because
that would challenge
their notion of God and man,
but we know from mystical--
from people who've
experienced mysticism
that these things occur.
What do you think it is about,
for example, the Kabbalah,
just to explain to people
what the mystical teachings
of the Kabbalah,
for example, could
help us understand-- how we can
understand the world better?
You talked about the different
dimensions and the seven
dimensions of heaven
and hell, for example,
but in a deeper
profound sense, what
do you make of the Kabbalah
and its wisdom for us?
>>DR. HANSON: Well,
you can sit in church
pews for your entire life or
in many synagogues, I'm afraid,
for your entire life and
not learn much about real
spirituality.
And it leaves people, frankly,
turned off and searching
for something,
anything that would
lend a new dimension to life.
Are we more than just flesh,
and blood, and blood cells,
and corpuscles, and
all those things?
And looking for something--
and it's right in our backyard.
These traditions are hidden
right in the biblical text
and beyond in Kabbalah,
and the basic teachings
has to do with how
we can find balance--
balance in all things.
There is a sense of
compassion in the world,
but it's balanced by other
attributes of severity
that we need to
understand and recognize.
People find things are
not going well for them.
They get upset.
They shake their fist
at the great void.
They don't know why me.
>>SEAN: Well, justice is severe.
It can go both ways.
>>DR. HANSON: Justice is
severe, and the teachings
are so profound.
We all find ourselves
in positions
of being judged at some point.
I'm a professor.
I'm a judge every
day, and we have
to learn how to
mete out compassion,
but it takes strong
character, also,
to hold the position and
the authority of judge,
and, in fact, the
severity of judge.
If I'm too pushy on my students,
I'm not doing them a service.
If we experience
pain, for example,
this is perhaps the perennial
problem of human existence--
the problem of pain.
There are various
divine emanations
according to Kabbalah
through which God interacts
with the material
world, and one of them
has to do, in fact,
with weakness.
It's called the
emanation of Hod.
It means the divine
splendor that
makes us weak in its presence.
This is actually divine
and very powerful.
There were rabbis suffering
through the Holocaust,
in fact, who left
behind spiritual diaries
on the basis of Kabbalah
trying to understand
what was going on.
Maybe the emanations
aren't getting through,
but in spite of all of
that, in spite of everything
we suffered, they wrote--
and these diaries
have just recently
come to light in the
last couple of decades.
It's remarkable.
They wrote we must
never lose hope,
because hopelessness is the
same as giving up on ourselves,
giving up on the divine.
>>SEAN: Precisely.
It's negating the divine,
basically saying--
>>DR. HANSON:
Negating the divine.
>>SEAN: --I don't believe.
I don't trust in God's plan
anymore, and I'm losing faith.
>>DR. HANSON: And in
spite of everything,
we will go on believing, and
that was their conclusion.
Very profound.
>>SEAN: Well, and certainly
as a result now we have Israel
in a certain sense has
been reconstituted,
and as we talked about before,
there's a lot of conflict
that's coming out of it,
but also do you think
there's a chance for peace that
can come from a realization
of these three religions--
Judaism, Christianity,
Islam-- all derived
from the same founders,
fathers, teachings essentially,
and they have slight differences
in their interpretations,
perhaps, but at the end
the day, the same source.
Do you think that Israel
can ultimately be a unifier,
rather than as it currently
stands, I think, as a divider
in the region?
>>DR. HANSON: Well, there's
some great prophecies from
the ancient Hebrew scriptures--
the most famous, perhaps,
from the book of
the prophet Isaiah--
everybody's heard of him--
in the second
chapter, which relates
a vision of the end of
days that says come and let
us go up to the house of God.
And the Torah, which
literally means the teaching.
We call it the Pentateuch, or
the books of Moses, or the law.
That's a horrible translation.
It's the teaching.
And by the way, like
Islam, it's a pathway.
Judaism and Islam, by
the way-- maybe people
don't know this-- are closer
to each other than Judaism
to Christianity, because they're
both looking for this pathway.
It says [HEBREW], from Zion
shall go forth the teaching.
[HEBREW]
And the word of God of
Hashem from Jerusalem.
It's a vision of world peace,
and all nations will come up.
I mean, this is just remarkable.
And you know what?
On the very exterior of the
United Nations headquarters
in New York is carved
into stone a passage
from the biblical prophet
who declares [HEBREW].
Nation shall not lift
up sword against nation.
[HEBREW]
And they shall no
more learn war.
That's powerful.
That's the vision of the
prophets, and yet how ironic
that the very
existence of Israel
today should be a flashpoint--
>>SEAN: Absolutely.
>>DR. HANSON: --of geopolitics.
>>SEAN: It's well--
and who knows
where this is going to take
us in terms of the end times
scenario, but one
thing that's actually
quite interesting to me,
as well as the notion of
within freemasonry they say that
the actual goal of Freemasonry
is to reconstitute
Solomon's temple.
And the temple was
reconstructed once.
It was destroyed by
the Romans in 70 AD.
A, do you think that there is
a possibility of this temple
being reconstructed, or is it--
physically, or do you think
it's more of a symbolic journey?
And what does it mean
to the Jewish people?
>>DR. HANSON: Well,
there's even controversy
among archaeologists as to
where the ancient temple stood,
because not one
stone of it remains.
We've got the pyramids of Egypt.
We've got the temple.
We've got the ziggurats
even, ancient Babylon.
Where are the Jewish monuments?
Nothing remains.
So some-- I'm not even
sure where it was.
There's the Temple Mount
in the heart of Jerusalem.
It's an enormous platform.
That is actually the
largest platform--
human made platform on
the face of the Earth.
That even dwarfs the
pyramids, by the way,
but there's an
Islamic shrine sitting
right there called the Dome of
the Rock, the Al-Aqsa Mosque.
Al-Aqsa means the
farthest mosque.
And adjacent to it, which is
actually the third holiest site
in Islam, as you well know--
the Dome of the Rock.
I'm convinced that the rock
on which that dome stands
is, in fact, the location
not only of the temple,
but if you are able to go
inside and visit inside,
there are grooves in
that rock that I--
as I first went to Israel
as a young student,
and I stared at
it, I didn't know
what those grooves are,
but only years later did
an interesting article come
out in "Biblical Archeology
Review" that shows that
the measurements of those
indentations in the rock
itself are exactly those
of the Ark of the covenant.
>>SEAN: Wow.
>>DR. HANSON: That's
where it stood.
Now, how do you build
a new temple and not
touch the Dome of the Rock?
That is certainly a
prescription for World War III.
I wouldn't want to go there.
>>SEAN: Or unification of all
three, because the rock could
also be the metaphor of
when Jesus told Peter
that you are the rock upon
which my church will be founded.
Perhaps that's the rock,
and the dome covers it,
and the temple is within.
It can actually be a perfect
place for unification.
>>DR. HANSON: Well, that's
an interesting angle, yeah.
And of course I'm
all for unification.
Jerusalem is such
an amazing city.
Having lived there
myself and studied there,
all within walking
distance you've
got the holiest site in
Judaism, the Western Wall.
You've got the Dome
of the Rock for Islam,
and you've got the Church
of the Holy Sepulcher, which
I'm convinced is, in fact,
archaeologically the site
of the crucifixion of Jesus--
all within walking distance.
What potential in this city.
And I remember
spending evenings just
walking through these
areas saying to myself,
wouldn't it be nice if we
could all just get along?
Wouldn't it be nice?
I would like to see
another temple built,
to be honest--
another Jewish temple
not touching or
harming at all, but I
think Judaism needs
a spiritual center.
>>SEAN: Absolutely.
How do you think that ultimately
the work that you're doing--
the historical
work you're doing--
obviously we know that history
helps us better understand
the world we're, but how do
you think that it's helping
to understand ultimately
the goal of peace
rather than conflict?
Because many people,
again, look at religion
as a divisive thing.
How do you think that your
work is actually helping?
For example, maybe the
research in the Kabbalism
and this mystical
tradition you spoke of.
How do you think that--
you're doing work to
help people understand
the mystical traditions so
they don't get caught up
in the letter of the
law, and they get in tune
with the spirit of the law.
>>DR. HANSON: It's
so important, and I
deal with these kind
of issues all the time.
Of course, I am a
professor, and I
think that from my perspective
I ask myself, what can I do?
Hey, I'm a teacher.
I teach, and this education
is ultimately, I think,
where it needs to
start across the board.
We have classes
in Judaic studies.
I'm the director of
Judaic studies at UCF,
but we are an
interdisciplinary program,
and I can tell you
more of our students
are non-Jews than Jews.
We have a course called
Judaism and Jesus that's
going on right now, in fact.
It's all online, by the way, and
we're producing amazing videos
incidentally--
like they're all
mini documentaries
that we've never been able to
do before in an online course.
And students are
just totally into it.
We've got Christian
students who are into this.
I've had Muslim
students in my courses,
and I'm telling
you, over the years,
they have been some of the
best students I have ever had.
We don't always
agree, of course.
We often disagree, but in terms
of the attitude and the sense
of wanting to find real
common understanding--
somebody asked
[INAUDIBLE] what's
the best Islamic
country in the world?
And he said without
question, the United States.
And this is the
template that I think
we need to create really for
the world and B'ezrat HaShem
and with God's help for
the Middle East, as well.
And then the other part
of what I do is in public.
I write, and, of
course, I'm out there.
I'm talking to you now.
This helps move the ball along.
>>SEAN: You have so
much wisdom to impart,
and I would love to
get you back on again,
obviously, soon, because
it's a real pleasure speaking
with you.
We could go on for hours.
>>DR. HANSON: Absolutely.
>>SEAN: But I think we're
going to be seeing what
happens in the Middle East
in the coming year I think
it could be very interesting
with the new administration
and whatnot.
I think we'll have to
keep our eyes open--
>>DR. HANSON: Definitely.
>>SEAN: --and speak
further at that point.
>>DR. HANSON: Critical times.
>>SEAN: Yeah, thank you so much.
Thank you so much,
Jerusalem Jones.
>>DR. HANSON: A pleasure.
A pleasure, Sean.
>>SEAN: And there you go, folks.
Great insights from Ken Hanson.
You may not agree with or
believe everything said here
today, but I urge you to
check out his web site,
treasuresintime.org.
Remember, the road to
truth is a perilous path
along the buzzsaw's edge.
It requires constant
reassessment.
I'm your host, Sean Stone.
You are the revolution.